

Advantages of Encapsulation 

	// main To test the  real class

	To launch/start your Java application //

	Protects an object from unwanted access 
		
	Encapsulation also helps us to make a flexible code which is easy to change and maintain.

	Encapsulation is also useful in hiding the data(instance variables) of a class from an illegal direct access.


DisAdvantages  of Encapsulation
	
	If proper encapsulation is not followed in a code, it leads to its bad designing.

Advantages of Inheritance

	We can avoid duplicate Code

		-- Put common code in one place, and let the subclasses inherit that code from a superclass . When you want to change thatbehavior, you have to modify it in only one place, and  

 	everybody else (i.e, all the subclasses) we can  see the change.

	We can  get to take advantage of polymorphism.


	You define a common protocol for a group of  classes.

Disadvantages of Inheritance

	Over Composition - Tightly coupled relationship between classes.

	This means that if we change code of parent class, it will affect to all the child classes which is inheriting/deriving the parent class, and hence, it cannot be independent of each other.


Over Interfaces for runtime polymorphism - Heavy weight compared to interface

Advantages of Polymorphism

Method overloading allows methods that perform similar or closely related functions to be accessed through a common name


Method overloading can be implemented on constructors allowing different ways to initialize objects of a class.


DisAdvantages of Polymorphsim

Polymorphism reduces the readability of the program. One needs to identify the runtime behavior of the program to identify actual execution time.

Advantages of Abstract Methods 

	They can have/define variables in them like a normal class

	They can do everything a normal class can

	They can extend classes

	
	You can’t have multiple inheritance with abstract classes

DisAdvantages of Abstract Methods 

The more Abstract ,the slower things are . The visibility is rarely provided. 



